<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title>use.perl.org journal of chromatic: Perl 6 Design Minutes for 09 January 2008</title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <meta name="description" content="">
    <meta name="author" content="">

    <!-- Le styles -->
    <link href="/static/css/bootstrap.css" rel="stylesheet">
    <style>
      body {
        padding-top: 60px; /* 60px to make the container go all the way to the
bottom of the topbar */
      }
    </style>
    <link href="/static/css/bootstrap-responsive.css" rel="stylesheet">

    <!-- Le HTML5 shim, for IE6-8 support of HTML5 elements -->
    <!--[if lt IE 9]>
      <script
src="http://html5shim.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/html5.js"></script>
    <![endif]-->

    <!-- Le fav and touch icons -->
    <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/static/ico/favicon.ico">
  </head>

  <body>

    <div class="navbar navbar-fixed-top">
      <div class="navbar-inner">
        <div class="container">
          <a class="btn btn-navbar" data-toggle="collapse"
data-target=".nav-collapse">
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
            <span class="icon-bar"></span>
          </a>
          <a class="brand" href="/"><img src="/static/img/slashhead.png"/></a>
          <div class="nav-collapse">
            <ul class="nav">
              <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
              <li><a href="/about/">About</a></li>
              <li><a href="/authors/">Authors</a></li>
              <li><a href="/journals/">Journals</a></li>
              <li><a href="/stories/">Stories</a></li>
            </ul>
            <p class="navbar-text">All the Perl that's Practical to Extract and Report</p>
          </div><!--/.nav-collapse -->
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>



<div class="container">

<div class="row">

<div class="span4">
<h1>Perl 6 Design Minutes for 09 January 2008</h1>
<h2><a href="/user/chromatic/">chromatic</a> on 2008-01-17T07:12:34</h2>
</div> <!-- /span4 -->


<div class="span8">
<p><p>The Perl 6 design team met by phone on 09 January 2008.  Larry, Allison, Patrick, Jerry, Will, Jesse, Nicholas, and chromatic attended.</p>

<p><strong>Patrick:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>helping people with various Perl 6 tasks</li>
<li>impressed with the UTF-8 issues and analysis</li>
<li>sped things up with a couple of patches</li>
<li>I'll have some recommendations for someone who wants to dive into Parrot internals</li>
<li>requires only a bit of C knowledge after we have the right design in place</li>
<li>Jerry's been doing a good job of adding Perl patches</li>
<li>I'm pleased with progress continuing</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jerry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>busy working on Perl 6</li>
<li>started journaling on use.perl.org to give people more info on my commits</li>
<li>people have been receptive</li>
<li>added <code>-h</code> and <code>-v</code> support to the Perl 6 executable</li>
<li>working on <code>-c</code> and <code>-e</code> now to make it look like a real executable</li>
<li>whether those will be the final options, that's fine</li>
<li>I'm sure that this will influence Larry's decision on changing everything</li>
<li>made some small patches to LOLCODE, which has been a blast</li>
<li>shepherding new people on #perl6 and #parrot who want to help</li>
<li>chatted with Allison about writing Perl 6 ops in Perl 6</li>
<li>she had some good ideas about how we might do that</li>
<li>might work on that this week</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Larry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>things are busy at work</li>
<li>mostly doing various spec things this week</li>
<li>semantics of key sets and key bags when you run into the endpoints were not clear</li>
<li>introduced a temporary operator, the P5 fat arrow</li>
<li>for the translator to use, means comma as in Perl 5</li>
<li>the problem is that you have to change the calls and the subs called into at the same time</li>
<li>you need to be able to find the P5-like fat arrows</li>
<li>the translator should not just translate them into commas</li>
<li>it mixes up the intent, where the intent is named arguments</li>
<li>it's an intentionally ugly operator</li>
<li>there were some questions about binding and autovivification</li>
<li>I worked on those</li>
<li>the special adverbial forms had confusing documentation in S02</li>
<li>I split those out and described them better</li>
<li>reiterated that basically Perl 6 is written in Unicode and that module names can be Unicode</li>
<li>the library system has to deal with that</li>
<li>thrashed out some possible codenames for Perl 6 on Parrot</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jesse:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>are there Unicode characters not allowed in module names?</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Larry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>they have to be alphanumeric</li>
<li>they have to follow the rules of naming</li>
<li>as you can have weirdly-named variables by way of access to the symbol table, you can probably do the same here</li>
<li>the library system just has to handle Unicode mapping</li>
<li>the official library may have one mechanism, but users may have to deal with their own personal libraries at the same time</li>
<li>interesting ideas floating around on the mailing list</li>
<li>still thinking about longest token matching in the background</li>
<li>may be one of those things that needs a broken prototype first</li>
<li>maybe not full DFA right off the bat</li>
<li>work up something through tries first</li>
<li>thinking about various options first</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Allison:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>wrapped up some of the last concurrency scheduler issues</li>
<li>as much as I've implemented so far</li>
<li>didn't manage to resolve all of the STM bugs</li>
<li>at least I resolved all of those related to the concurrency scheduler</li>
<li>we'll revamp STM next month anyway, so I moved on</li>
<li>working on the PMC PDD implementation</li>
<li>chromatic has been helping on that</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>c:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>you made me write a parser</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Allison:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>I made you modify a parser</li>
<li>mostly there's code cleanup</li>
<li>some changes to the parser that turns our PMC mini-language into actual C though</li>
<li>talking to the Debian people about whether to include Artistic 2.0 in the distribution</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>c:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>helping Allison with the PMC stuff, hacking on the parser</li>
<li>did some profiling and helped find some optimization targets for string handling</li>
<li>fixed a couple of bugs, have some segfaults to look at</li>
<li>found that our PIR implementation with optimizations is highly competitive with Python and Perl 5, so good there</li>
<li>couldn't benchmark it with the Perl 6 implementation yet</li>
<li>needs some work to get Fibonacci running</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Will:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>did some work getting LOLCODE running on Parrot</li>
<li>it's about as useful as abc, but it's more of a draw for other people</li>
<li>managed to get Simon Cozens back at least temporarily</li>
<li>hopefully we'll get more tuits from him</li>
<li>Parrot 0.5.2 is due next Tuesday</li>
<li>Bob Rogers will be doing that, and I'll be the fallback</li>
<li>Andy Lester has been bugging us for information on the bugday before the release, so maybe we'll get some new development there</li>
<li>it looks like we'll target 0.6.0 for February</li>
<li>still working on the read-only frontend for RT to organize tickets in a more readable fashion</li>
<li>probably another day of hacking before I can release the front-end</li>
<li>talking to Robert about migrating the backend to perl.org</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Richard:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>working mostly on TPF internals stuff</li>
<li>putting a few cycles into sponsorship</li>
<li>nothing solid to report yet</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Nicholas:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>haven't done more work on the smart match, as Larry responded on p5p before I could</li>
<li>haven't yet talked to Rafael</li>
<li>we should figure out what to do before 5.10.1 in the next couple of months</li>
<li>weren't sure what to call first-class regular expressions in 5.11</li>
<li>Yves committed a patch for <code>REGEXP</code></li>
<li>I suggested <code>RULE</code>, but people didn't like that</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jesse:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>just returned from a week and a half in Portugal</li>
<li>ended up not quite pure vacation</li>
<li>spent half my time with Perl hackers</li>
<li>spent a lot of time chatting with Flavio</li>
<li>he's having fun and interested in hacking on Patrick's compiler</li>
<li>there's a lot the implementations can learn from each other</li>
<li>steal outright even</li>
<li>he has some ideas about fairly major testsuite refactorings</li>
<li>they're different from Patrick's ideas, and I'm probably not capturing them accurately</li>
<li>he wants to break it into various levels of compiler support</li>
<li>should be possible to have a large chunk of the test suite run by a first-stage implementation</li>
<li>designated features that the compiler supports for levels of the test suite</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jerry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>that's the problem to do portably across backends</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Allison:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>different implementations will implement things in different orders</li>
<li>when you order the tests, to target implementation work</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Larry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>we already have a way of marking blocks as TODO</li>
<li>maybe Flavio just wants a way of marking file-scoped things</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jesse:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>it's a desire, not a requirement</li>
<li>he believes that there may be a reasonable required order for language implementation</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jerry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>coming up with best practices sounds like a great idea</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jesse:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>Flavio said he'd find it helpful to have a Parrotsketch-style IRC meeting for implementors</li>
<li>I want to avoid meeting fatigue though</li>
<li>maybe it would make sense to take this meeting online once in a while</li>
<li>every other week for #ps</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jerry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>or a logged #p6c channel</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jesse:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>it would be nice to have everyone around in a logged format</li>
<li>he did say that he'd like to see more collaboration between implementations</li>
<li>he's very eagerly awaiting the longest-token matcher</li>
<li>slight connotations of "desperately waiting for"</li>
<li>a partial implementation would go a long way toward getting him to hack on it</li>
<li>someone in Lisbon.pm is working on a straight-up C runtime for Perl 6</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Nicholas:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>how many implementations are there?</li>
<li>there's kp6, there's Perl 6 on Parrot, there's Pugs but I don't know how viable it is</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jesse:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>within kp6, there are several bootstrap runtimes</li>
<li>Perl 5, Common Lisp, kp6 on Parrot</li>
<li>Flavio also has a couple of mini-languages written in Perl 6 and compiled to Perl 5 on the CPAN</li>
<li>the compiler is slow, but the result is good</li>
<li>so there are people using that part of Perl 6 already</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jerry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>it's so easy even I can do it!</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jesse:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>I'm not sure that's "even" in there</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Jerry:</strong></p>

<ul>
<li>but that's how I feel about it sometimes!</li>
</ul></p>





</div> <!-- /span8 -->

</div> <!-- row -->
</div> <!-- /container -->



    <!-- Le javascript
    ================================================== -->
    <!-- Placed at the end of the document so the pages load faster -->

  </body>
</html>

